ok so lets talk about that sneaky
method i mentioned it does involve
thinking about things slightly
differently and a clue again was in that
comment that i added down here in line
42 unless the final character in the
string was a period so the question is
what would happen if we made sure that
the final character in the input string
was a period
well two things would happen the for loop
would always execute at least once
because there would be at least one
character in the input string also would
be no need for that final test because
if the final character is a period than
the previous segments details would
always be printed so let's see how that
would actually work
first I'm going to start by commenting
out this final if statement and
also going to comment out the
initialization to the character variable
on line
32 now if we're making sure that the for
loop executes at-least once then we
don't need to make sure the character
has a value so that's why I'm commenting
that out so at this point we really need
to do is append a full stop
sorry period to whatever the user types
in so down here under line 28 i'm going
to type....
and again I won't run through all the tests
because I've done that and with one
exception they all produce exactly the
same results I will make sure that running
the program and entering blank input works
so lets do that
press enter we are now correctly getting the
message segment one contains zero
characters whereas before course we need
that optional code on line 44 and 45 to
get that working let's also try single
segment I'm going to run it again and
just enter 8 for the input segment one
contains one character that also works
and try...
that's also working but the exception is
any input that already ends in a period
so if we actually run that again
....and again a period on the
end
so you got segment 1234 which is
correct but this modified program now
displays the results for a fifth segment
containing 0 characters now that's
arguably more correct but if you want
exactly the same behavior as we had
previously then you just check that the
input string didn't already end with a
full stop then only trying to append one if it
didn't
the important thing here though is
thinking about the problem slightly
differently can lead to simple code now
we haven't covered how to check the last
character in the string so don't
worry about that bit i'm going to make
the change to check the final character
just to satisfy the curious so let's go
ahead and do that so up here we're
going to change this code and put....
....
....now we'll be covering
that in the course soon if you run that
again
...we now
correctly get the results and the fifth
segment is now no longer showing that's
because we're only adding the period if
it is not already one there now before i
finish this video there is one more
thing that I want to mention and I'm
sort of Crow barring this in here
because it was covered in the previous
version of this video and incidentally
I re recorded this video and
the previous one
after listening to comments from
students so I'm going to make a slight
change to the code so that i can still
cover this next bit so forgive me if
this is a slightly contrived way to lead
into it so what we are going to do is copy the
description on IP address from the
comment on line 4 here and paste it
into the input prompt on line 28
going to copy the entire line
copy and I'm gonna replace it here
on line 28 I just removed the word but
for simplicity so i'll end up with a
full stop like you can see that so what
we've done is we've made the message a
little bit more informative so that we
can have a look at why we don't get a
green tick at the top-right of our code
window anymore and also take the
opportunity to clear up some of these
lines down the end just leave the one
line down the bottom and we got our
green tick now intelliJ tries to make
life easy by highlighting all
occurrences of variables etc so you may
find that there are a lot of markers on
the right-hand side of the code window
for example if you click on the word
segment on line 32 i'll do that now
notice how we now got segment
showing in a number we got the
markers on the right-hand side now
that's because intelliJ will highlight
all instances of segments in the code
and place a marker in the right margin
and the reason for that is that it
allows you to quickly see the code for
each instance by hovering over the
marker or to jump to any occurence by
clicking on the marker now click into a
blank line to clear the marker so I'll do
that now and what I need to do for this
error to come up because I copy and
pasted but what I didn't do was add another
or leave the original message their
so going to type that again so you
can see this problem
alright so you can see what's happened
now that I've made it extra long this is
was the original error that i wanted to
show you note that we no longer got
a green tick in the box in the top
right-hand corner and just to confirm
if i come over and select segment
again you can see there's other errors
again and if I just click back
we still got an error showing over there
and I can hover over that line too long
and 130 is greater than a 120
characters and I clicked on the warning
that you take me automatically to
line to show where the problem is
you can see it's got to line 28 and
obviously it's pretty clear on the fact
that that's underlined that that's where
the problem is
so the problem here is that the Python
parser doesn't have a 120
character restriction because if it did
work our code will execute and we can run
this its still going to actually work
the code obviously still work so the
problem is that isn't that the pyhon
parcer can't handle something greater
than 120 characters it's just that the
python standards do recommend a maximum
length which used to be 79 characters
now the reason is largely down to
readability especially when coding in
a terminal window
now google actually specify a maximum
length of 80 characters with a few
exceptions and let me bring the link up
on the screen quickly so you can read
more about that on that link that I just pasted
in but to also if you want
to have a full half argument google
python line length and you can really
become embroiled in much utility the
time is much better spent coding than
worrying about such details the bottom
line here is not to be too concerned
about whether it's 79 characters or its
a 120 whether it's 80 but
let's actually go back and appease
IntelliJ so that we're not distracted by
warnings in that right margin i'm just
going to go back to intellij again
we can actually fix it pretty easily we
can place the cursor before the words
separated here and press enter and you
can see that
intellij correctly fixes the problem for
us because it's split the line and sort
out the quotes for us automatically so
that still valid Python syntax so you'll
often see long lines especially text
strings like this one spilled out of two
or more lines in the code now keep in
mind that python also has a line
continuation character which is a
backslash let's have a look at how that
works
we're going to actually cut that
text I'm just going to undo that change
but and undo which was a command z
on a Mac and control z on a pc or
linux machine i'm going to copy that
entire input i'm going to actually put
it into a variable so I'm going to just
type...
....
...
and unsurprisingly we're getting an
error on that line as well indicating
that the lines too long so we can
split in the same way i can position the
cursor just before separated and press
enter that fixes the problem at least
for the input prompt variable but note
that this time because we've had in a
string that fixed it by adding this
backslash at the end of the first line
so if you want to split a line you can
use the you can use a backslash
character just like intelliJ has done
here and I can fix the next line
now by changing that to input....
just confirming that program
still runs and still getting the outputs
so still working
so again if you want to split a line you
can use that backslash character to do
that just like intellij done here
on line 28 unfortunately many style
guides including Google's specify that
you shouldn't use the line continuation
character unless theirs no alternative
so you may actually find strings like
ours enclosed in parentheses instead to
show you how that works i'm going to
delete the parentheses like so we go
back to the start of the line and add our
left parentheses then go to the
right of the line second line
right parenthesis the other thing you
need to do is make sure that these are
lined up correctly and once I've line them up
correctly you can see that warning
actually disappears but without doing
that you'll get a weird error here about
continuation line under indented
for vision indent so just make sure
thats the double quotes are
basically in line so I've mentioned this
so that you can make sense of code
written by other programmers a line can
be broken using that backslash
continuation character but most
expressions can also be split without
a line continuation character if the
expression is enclosed in parentheses as
it is in the example now for the input
_prompt variable on-screen
some style guides such as Google suggest
you use parentheses instead of the
backslash whenever possible and that's
why IntelliJ didn't insert the backslash
when the string was included as an
argument to the input function earlier
on line 30 because it was enclosed in
parentheses the backslash actually
wasn't necessary
alright so that's it that's the end of
our challenge and I hope you've got a
lot out of it and let's move on to the
next video